MARK COLVIN All so just a reminder here that this particular video is a boon to Linux.
Check out the other videos in this section.
If you're on Windows or you're running on a Mac.
So at this point now it's time to download and install the Java development kit.
We're going to be using version eleven as we've discussed previously.
So I want to go firstly to the Java web site.
And that is Java dot some dot com and we're going to download the Java development kit.
So once we arrive at the site it's going to size this up so you can see it click on Java AC DC.
By the way stands for Java standard edition.
You can see over here we've got Java SC L1 LTE s LTE stands for long term support and come down over
here to the right hand side under Oracle.
JT okay.
And I'm going to click on download that brings us to this page which is where we can download the Jedi
okay.
I need to click on it accept a license agreement because I'm on a boat to Linux I'm going to download
and install the Tada GZ file and that will probably work with most destroyers.
But if you want to depending whether you've got red hat or Debian or some other distro of Linux you
can download one of these I love images so I'm going to select the duck tartare GZ I'm going to save
that to my downloads folder and look at that a moment to complete.
Now the process is going to be a little bit different because we on lyrics we're going to basically
move it over manually ourself into the relevant folder.
So to do that I'm going to do is go into the command line for this.
So I'm gonna wait for this download to finish and then meanwhile make a start on it.
Well actually mass will open the terminal window now while that's still downloading.
So don't come up empty your activities I'm going to open terminal from the top terminal in here but
you can just open the terminal in the normal way the way you would normally open it I can just size
this up once this is finished downloading so I can see what we're doing.
I'll just pause now until this is finished downloading.
Okay so I can say that's not downloaded I'm just going to minimize the browser for now and bring back
our terminal window which I've opened and I'm going to come into the downloads folder seedy space to
the forward slash downloads with a capital D.
And if we do what else we should be able to see our tidy K file there and what we wanted to do now is
we want to unzip it first really use tough for that.
So I can't make this a bit bigger so I can see the commands I'm typing here.
So I'm going to talk.
Tall spice dash SPF spice and I'm going to stop cherry K and press tab and choose our version of the
GZ file and presenter and you can see that unzip that file.
Now if we have a look again we could say we've got a JD K eleven far in the bottom my left hand corner
there.
So the next thing I want to do is create a directory to store our Java development kit.
I'm gonna put it in USL Libre JVM in a sub folder.
And the advantage of doing that is when we come to install Intel E.J. in the next video it looks there
by default for that.
For the JT K and you'll find it for us automatically.
So I'm gonna start by typing sudo we need to do that because we're trying to access files that have
been created by root so pseudo space in K desire space on us P and it's forward slash U.S. R fourth
slash lib forward slash JVM forward slash.
And I'm just going to create a new directory and call it JT K dash eleven.
Now if there's a new version of the JT K there's a sub version that's come out eleven point one you
might want to change the the directory name to be that but I'm just kind of stick with JT Kadish 11
and put a forward slash there right and that's our forward created by saying to my password
next I want to then move the contents of our unzipped JT K into that folder.
So over the top.
So we don't space in the space and JT K and I'm just pressing the tab there forward slash and then star.
So basically the contents of the JT K eleven forward folder that we've unzipped.
They want to move the contents to forward slash U.S. are would slash lib fourth last JVM forward slash
press tab there because it's the any forward out what the any directory in there JT K level Hurricane
Center and that's the contents now moved and just to make sure we can type Ellis s space slash USAF
slash lib slash JVM slash JT K level and you can see the files when they never can see a number of file
folders.
Now depending on whether you've got Java or the java compiler configured we can actually use a pseudo
update alternatives command to set it up so that Java will work from the command line at the moment
if I type Java space dash version we'll get the fact that it's not found so if you're happy with that
and you are only gonna be using Java from the intelligence a IDC the tool that we're going to be sorting
in the next video you won't need to do this that command and I'm about to show you but if you actually
want to run Java from the command line I suggest you type this command in top sudo space update space
alternatives.
Space minus minus or dash dash that should be install space and in double quotes forward slash U.S.
R fourth slash in fourth slash Java double quotes the space and then double quotes again.
So where Java in between and then we're going to point to Java on our installation so let's give me
double quotes.
Forward slash U.S. R force slash lib forward slash JVM forward slash and straight K eleven toward slash
spin and forward slash Java enclosing double quiet space in ten ten.
And now we can talk Java space minus version we could say we've got Java eleven actually working.
So I'm going to do the same for the java compiler.
I'm just gonna press the up arrow twice and change Java to Java C here and go back and change Java to
Java C there.
Then the final one third place Java C there as well.
So we've done the same for Java as you can see there all right now the other thing we could do we could
spend time setting up environment variables for Java.
We don't need to use that or do that rather because we're going to be using the teletype idea tool for
programming in Java.
So for that reason I'm not going to spend any more time any more time configuring comms going to close
down terminal window typing exit and we'll finish the video here in the next video we'll actually move
on and start installing the tool intelligence idea that we gonna be using to write our Java programs.
So I'll see you in the next video.